Nextcloud support (#731)
usegalaxy-eu/website: _posts/2021-07-04-nextcloud-support.md

---
site: freiburg
tags: [tools]
title: ownCloud and Nextcloud integration for your private data
supporters:
- denbi
- elixir
---

[ownCloud](https://owncloud.com/) and [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/) are free software solutions for the storage and management of data.

> Many universities are offering own Nextcloud instances where researchers can store and share data in a GDPR compliant way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many universities are offering their own Nextcloud instances where researchers can store and share data in a GDPR compliant way.
```

> We have now added support to Galaxy to interact with your storage. You can import data from you Nextcloud instance or export data from your history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now added support to Galaxy to interact with your storage. You can import data from your Nextcloud instance or export data from your history
```

> to your cloud storage. Technically this works by using the [WebDAV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebDAV) protocol and you can use this integration with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to your cloud storage. Technically, this works by using the [WebDAV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebDAV) protocol and you can use this integration with
```

> every server that speaks this protocol. In the following we will give you a few examples how to configure your Galaxy account to make use of that feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every server that speaks this protocol. 

Here are some examples of how to configure your Galaxy account to make use of that feature.
```

In all cases you need to go User → Preferences → [Manage Information](https://usegalaxy.eu/user/information)

![](/assets/media/b2drop_access.png)

> For example to get access to the [B2Drop service of EUDAT](https://eudat.eu/services/b2drop). You can configure your settings like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to get access to the [B2DROP service of EUDAT](https://eudat.eu/services/b2drop), you can configure your settings like:
```

    Server Domain: https://b2drop.bsc.es
    Server Path: /remote.php/webdav
    Username: <your username> (e.g. your email)
    Password: <your password>

> For the CRC1452 you ...

Author: @pavanvidem could you please test this with the CRC1452 Nextcloud and add the example here?

Author: I tested CRC1425 and it seems to work :) Something for your retreat next week :)

> For the CRC1452 you ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the CRC1452, you...
```

every server that speaks this protocol. 

Here are some examples of how to configure your Galaxy account to make use of that feature.

In all cases you need to go User → Preferences → [Manage Information](https://usegalaxy.eu/user/information)

![](/assets/media/b2drop_access.png)

Once configured you will find an option called "Choose remote files" in the normal Galaxy upload dialog.
Choose "Nextcloud/ownCloud" and select your files you want to import.

![](/assets/media/nextcloud_file_picker.png)

## Example configurations

For example to get access to the [B2Drop service of EUDAT](https://eudat.eu/services/b2drop).
You can configure your settings like:

>  Server Domain: `https://b2drop.bsc.es`
>
>  Server Path: `/remote.php/webdav`
>
>  Username: `<your username>` (e.g. your email)
>
>  Password: `<your password>`

As a member of the [CRC1425](https://www.sfb1425.uni-freiburg.de) ("The heterocellular nature of cardiac lesions: Identities, interactions, implications")
you can use settings like:

>  Server Domain: `https://nxc-1425.imbi.uni-freiburg.de`
>
>  Server Path: `/remote.php/webdav`
>
>  Username: `<your username>` (e.g. your email)
>
>  Password: `<your password>`

> And don't forget you can also export files back to your cloud storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And don't forget that you can also export files back to your cloud storage.
```
